docs/source/getting-started.rst, before:

.. _install:

********************************
Installation and Getting Started
********************************

Getting up and running with Ibis involves installing the Python package and
connecting to HDFS and Impala. If you don't have a Hadoop cluster available
with Impala, see :ref:`install.quickstart` below for instructions to use a VM
to get up and running quickly.

Installation
------------

System dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Ibis requires a working Python 2.7 or >= 3.4 installation. We recommend
`Anaconda <http://continuum.io/downloads>`_.

Installing the Python package
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Install ibis using ``pip`` or ``conda``:

::

  pip install ibis-framework

This installs the ``ibis`` library to your configured Python environment.

Ibis can also be installed with Kerberos support for its HDFS functionality:

::

  pip install ibis-framework[kerberos]

Some platforms will require that you have Kerberos installed to build properly.

* Redhat / CentOS: ``yum install krb5-devel``
* Ubuntu / Debian: ``apt-get install libkrb5-dev``
* Arch Linux     : ``pacman -S krb5``

.. _install.impala:

`Impala <https://impala.apache.org/>`_ Quickstart
-------------------------------------------------

Install dependencies for Ibis's Impala dialect:

::

  pip install ibis-framework[impala]

To create an Ibis client, you must first connect your services and assemble the
client using :func:`~ibis.impala.connect`:

.. code-block:: python

   import ibis

   hdfs = ibis.hdfs_connect(host=webhdfs_host, port=webhdfs_port)
   con = ibis.impala.connect(host=impala_host, port=impala_port,
                             hdfs_client=hdfs)

Both method calls can take ``auth_mechanism='GSSAPI'`` or
``auth_mechanism='LDAP'`` to connect to Kerberos clusters.  Depending on your
cluster setup, this may also include SSL. See the :ref:`API reference
<api.client>` for more, along with the Impala shell reference, as the
connection semantics are identical.

.. _install.sqlite:

`SQLite <https://www.sqlite.org/>`_ Quickstart
----------------------------------------------

Install dependencies for Ibis's SQLite dialect:

::

  pip install ibis-framework[sqlite]

Create a client by passing a path to a SQLite database to
:func:`~ibis.sqlite.connect`:

.. code-block:: python

   >>> ibis.sqlite.connect('path/to/my/sqlite.db')

See http://blog.ibis-project.org/sqlite-crunchbase-quickstart/ for a quickstart
using SQLite.

.. _install.postgres:

`PostgreSQL <https://www.postgresql.org/>`_ Quickstart
------------------------------------------------------

Install dependencies for Ibis's PostgreSQL dialect:

::

  pip install ibis-framework[postgres]

Create a client by passing a connection string or individual parameters to
:func:`~ibis.postgres.connect`:

.. code-block:: python

   >>> con = ibis.postgres.connect(
   ...     'postgresql://user:pass@host:port/my_database'
   ... )
   >>> con = ibis.postgres.connect(
   ...     user='bob', port=23569, database='ibis_testing'
   ... )

.. _install.bigquery:

`Clickhouse <https://clickhouse.yandex/>`_ Quickstart
-----------------------------------------------------

Install dependencies for Ibis's Clickhouse dialect:

::

  pip install ibis-framework[clickhouse]

Create a client by passing in database connection parameters such as ``host``,
``port``, ``database``, and ``user`` to :func:`~ibis.clickhouse.connect`:


.. code-block:: python

   >>> con = ibis.clickhouse.connect(host='localhost', port=9000)

`BigQuery <https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/>`_ Quickstart
-----------------------------------------------------------

Install dependencies for Ibis's BigQuery dialect:

::

  pip install ibis-framework[bigquery]

Create a client by passing in the project id and dataset id you wish to operate
with:


.. code-block:: python

   >>> con = ibis.bigquery.connect(project_id='ibis-gbq', dataset_id='testing')

By default ibis assumes that the BigQuery project that's billed for queries is
also the project where the data lives.

However, it's very easy to query data that does **not** live in the billing
project.

.. note::

   When you run queries against data from other projects **the billing project
   will still be billed for any and all queries**.

If you want to query data that lives in a different project than the billing
project you can use the :meth:`~ibis.bigquery.client.BigQueryClient.database`
method of :class:`~ibis.bigquery.client.BigQueryClient` objects:

.. code-block:: python

   >>> db = con.database('other-data-project.other-dataset')
   >>> t = db.my_awesome_table
   >>> t.sweet_column.sum().execute()  # runs against the billing project

Learning resources
------------------

We are collecting Jupyter notebooks for learning here:
https://github.com/ibis-project/ibis/tree/master/docs/source/notebooks. Some of
these notebooks will be reproduced as part of the documentation.

.. _install.quickstart:


Running Ibis Queries using Docker
---------------------------------

Contributor `Krisztián Szűcs <https://github.com/kszucs>`_ has spent many hours
crafting a very easy-to-use ``docker-compose`` setup that enables users and
developers of ibis to get up and running quickly.

Here are the steps:


.. code-block:: sh

   # clone ibis
   git clone https://github.com/ibis-project/ibis

   # go to where the docker-compose file is
   pushd ibis/ci

   # build the latest version of ibis
   docker-compose build --pull ibis

   # spin up containers
   docker-compose up -d --no-build postgres impala clickhouse

   # wait for things to finish starting
   docker-compose run waiter

   # load data into databases
   docker-compose run ibis ci/load-data.sh

   # confirm that you can reach impala
   impala_ip_address="$(docker inspect -f '{{.NetworkSettings.Networks.ci_default.IPAddress}}' ci_impala_1)"
   ping -c 1 "${impala_ip_address}"

Commit message:

Changed information about using docker to all-in-one command

docs/source/getting-started.rst, after:

.. _install:

********************************
Installation and Getting Started
********************************

Getting up and running with Ibis involves installing the Python package and
connecting to HDFS and Impala. If you don't have a Hadoop cluster available
with Impala, see :ref:`install.quickstart` below for instructions to use a VM
to get up and running quickly.

Installation
------------

System dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Ibis requires a working Python 2.7 or >= 3.4 installation. We recommend
`Anaconda <http://continuum.io/downloads>`_.

Installing the Python package
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Install ibis using ``pip`` or ``conda``:

::

  pip install ibis-framework

This installs the ``ibis`` library to your configured Python environment.

Ibis can also be installed with Kerberos support for its HDFS functionality:

::

  pip install ibis-framework[kerberos]

Some platforms will require that you have Kerberos installed to build properly.

* Redhat / CentOS: ``yum install krb5-devel``
* Ubuntu / Debian: ``apt-get install libkrb5-dev``
* Arch Linux     : ``pacman -S krb5``

.. _install.impala:

`Impala <https://impala.apache.org/>`_ Quickstart
-------------------------------------------------

Install dependencies for Ibis's Impala dialect:

::

  pip install ibis-framework[impala]

To create an Ibis client, you must first connect your services and assemble the
client using :func:`~ibis.impala.connect`:

.. code-block:: python

   import ibis

   hdfs = ibis.hdfs_connect(host=webhdfs_host, port=webhdfs_port)
   con = ibis.impala.connect(host=impala_host, port=impala_port,
                             hdfs_client=hdfs)

Both method calls can take ``auth_mechanism='GSSAPI'`` or
``auth_mechanism='LDAP'`` to connect to Kerberos clusters.  Depending on your
cluster setup, this may also include SSL. See the :ref:`API reference
<api.client>` for more, along with the Impala shell reference, as the
connection semantics are identical.

.. _install.sqlite:

`SQLite <https://www.sqlite.org/>`_ Quickstart
----------------------------------------------

Install dependencies for Ibis's SQLite dialect:

::

  pip install ibis-framework[sqlite]

Create a client by passing a path to a SQLite database to
:func:`~ibis.sqlite.connect`:

.. code-block:: python

   >>> ibis.sqlite.connect('path/to/my/sqlite.db')

See http://blog.ibis-project.org/sqlite-crunchbase-quickstart/ for a quickstart
using SQLite.

.. _install.postgres:

`PostgreSQL <https://www.postgresql.org/>`_ Quickstart
------------------------------------------------------

Install dependencies for Ibis's PostgreSQL dialect:

::

  pip install ibis-framework[postgres]

Create a client by passing a connection string or individual parameters to
:func:`~ibis.postgres.connect`:

.. code-block:: python

   >>> con = ibis.postgres.connect(
   ...     'postgresql://user:pass@host:port/my_database'
   ... )
   >>> con = ibis.postgres.connect(
   ...     user='bob', port=23569, database='ibis_testing'
   ... )

.. _install.bigquery:

`Clickhouse <https://clickhouse.yandex/>`_ Quickstart
-----------------------------------------------------

Install dependencies for Ibis's Clickhouse dialect:

::

  pip install ibis-framework[clickhouse]

Create a client by passing in database connection parameters such as ``host``,
``port``, ``database``, and ``user`` to :func:`~ibis.clickhouse.connect`:


.. code-block:: python

   >>> con = ibis.clickhouse.connect(host='localhost', port=9000)

`BigQuery <https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/>`_ Quickstart
-----------------------------------------------------------

Install dependencies for Ibis's BigQuery dialect:

::

  pip install ibis-framework[bigquery]

Create a client by passing in the project id and dataset id you wish to operate
with:


.. code-block:: python

   >>> con = ibis.bigquery.connect(project_id='ibis-gbq', dataset_id='testing')

By default ibis assumes that the BigQuery project that's billed for queries is
also the project where the data lives.

However, it's very easy to query data that does **not** live in the billing
project.

.. note::

   When you run queries against data from other projects **the billing project
   will still be billed for any and all queries**.

If you want to query data that lives in a different project than the billing
project you can use the :meth:`~ibis.bigquery.client.BigQueryClient.database`
method of :class:`~ibis.bigquery.client.BigQueryClient` objects:

.. code-block:: python

   >>> db = con.database('other-data-project.other-dataset')
   >>> t = db.my_awesome_table
   >>> t.sweet_column.sum().execute()  # runs against the billing project

Learning resources
------------------

We are collecting Jupyter notebooks for learning here:
https://github.com/ibis-project/ibis/tree/master/docs/source/notebooks. Some of
these notebooks will be reproduced as part of the documentation.

.. _install.quickstart:


Running Ibis Queries using Docker
---------------------------------

Contributor `Krisztián Szűcs <https://github.com/kszucs>`_ has spent many hours
crafting a very easy-to-use ``docker-compose`` setup that enables users and
developers of ibis to get up and running quickly.

Here are the steps using all-in-one command:


.. code-block:: sh

   # clone ibis
   git clone https://github.com/ibis-project/ibis

   # go to where the docker-compose file and other CI scripts are
   pushd ibis/ci

   # run all-in-one command to build all containers necessary
   bash build.sh

   # confirm that you can reach impala
   impala_ip_address="$(docker inspect -f '{{.NetworkSettings.Networks.ci_default.IPAddress}}' ci_impala_1)"
   ping -c 1 "${impala_ip_address}"
